Ingres, Jupiter and Thetis (student of David) - what makes it Romantic is the fact Thetis is distortored, her face is very personal)Friedrich, Abbey in an Oak Forest (German)Painted in a hope of a resurrection, the idea that Spring will come Daumier, The Legislative Belly Courbet, The Painter’s Studio: A Real Allegory (he shows the position of an artist in society. In the 19th century the artists is more elevated, as opposed ot before. Garneier, the Paris Opera House Too much going on inside, otherwise it would be classical. Meant to be overly ornate. William Blake, Ancient of Days Everyone thought that he was insane. Helps a little bit to be crazy. He said that reality and imagination remain in the same place and so they were both equal Wrote the song “Jerusalem” “The songs of Innocense”, “the songs of experience”, regular meters a simple language William Blake thought to be mad, refused to do things the convention way, “The songs of innocence” “the songs of experience”, regular meters and simple language. Wrote the words to song “Jerusalem” Glastonbury (long standing legend that Christ visited Glastonbury in England) Keep Blake in mind. He is not as marginal as sometimes portrayed to be. Wordsworth is the grandfather of the English romantic poetic tradition. His catch phrase is “Emotion recollected in tranquility” He belonged to a group of poets known as the Lake Poets which also included (Samuel Taylor Coleridge) They focused more on trees, and plants rather than the old texts (like Alexander Pope). This idea that nature will become a replacement for the church. He hoped to give the impression that his poems that flowed out of him. He might do 8 pages of drafts to get a few lines of poetry. He wrote Intimidations of Immorality. “Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting.” When we are young we are astounded with nature. In our infancy it seems that we are one with nature. Tintern Abby - was very much like a gothic ruin. “lines composed a few miles above Tintern  abbey , on revising the banks of the wye during a tour.” He says, that when the weight of the world is on his shoulders he turns to the river (not God). He moral compass is the river. He has replaced the church with nature. Read “We are Seven”, written by William WordsWorth. Based on a real experience he had actually had. Lord Byron is part of the next generation of romantic english poets. Shelly, Byron, and Keats all knew each other. P.B. Shelley was educated at Oxford. Deeply rebellious - called “Mad Shelley”. He was expelled from Oxford for publishing and circulating a pamphlet about atheism. Ozymandias is the Greek name for Rameses II. Ozymandias the poem is a part of the whole. It just starts in the middle but it is like the ruins. No story, partly there, and telling their story. Very early in the Church’s history, Dickens and Tolstoy talk about the